We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defense, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America.

There are two people who created the Geiger Counter. One of them is Hans Geiger and the other one is Walther Muller. Hans Geiger was born on September 30'th 1882. He was a German scientist. Hans was a student of science and physics in the University of Erlangen. Later he studied at the University of Manchester. Walther Müller was born on September 6, 1905 and attended the University of Kiel, where he studied physics, chemistry and philosophy. The Geiger Counter was created by Hans during his work at The University of Manchester, he did this under the supervision of Ernest Rutherford in 1908. Hans was about 26 years old. Walter improved it later. The Geiger Counter was created to detect potentially harmful radiation around the user. The Geiger Counter works by having a hollow metal tube that contains an inert gas, this tube has a conductive wire running through the center of it. This wire is given a positive charge by a battery. When the radioactive atom breaks down, it knocks nearby electrons. This builds charge and creates a pulse that is heard by a "click". Each click shows an atom has decayed, so more clicking means more radiation. Other parts of the counter indicate the radiation level and a speaker is used to play the "clicks".


Modern day Geiger Counter.

Sources:
 Port, Jake. "How Does a Geiger Counter Work?" Cosmos Magazine, 30 Apr. 2020, cosmosmagazine.com/technology/how-does-geiger-counter-work/. 
"Geiger Counter." Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 30 Nov. 2020, en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geiger_counter. 
I believe that the deeper meaning of this community is to show the regime of north korea and other restrictive countries. For a long period of time, North korea had restrictions on music, and what content entered their country. To this day they still restrict people who leave and enter the country. I believe that this is closely represented in the book. No one can exit the community without applying for release. People in the community have limited access to books, and music is forbidden. Isolation is a key objective in the community. People have utmost peace due to this. The people in the community are satisfied and any rebellious members result in a release.This means that everything in the community is highly controlled and everyone is surveilled. This is a basic breach of human rights as people cant feel anything due to the mandatory use of pills for members.
Air Squat Comparison

Feet placement: My feet were placed very similar to the video, my toes and heels were always touching the ground and my ankles were not rolling. My knees tracked over my toes and they did not cave in this was also concurrent with the video. My back was a bit less flat and neutral then the video. In terms of depth I went as deep as possible and it looked like a marble would be able to roll down my thigh.
Believe in You Lesson 2 - Mark Henry

Please answer the questions below.  Don't forget to submit your document.



1. What was most interesting about this episode to you?
	The most interesting thing about this episode to me is that Mark-Henry, rebuilt his life after going to jail and persevered through all the difficulties. The fact that this one person is the strongest in the world is astonishing, the fact he also wrestles shows that one can do so much more with one talent. 


2. What does Aspire to Excellence?
Aspire to means that you Hope/Work to be great. For example I can aspire to excellence when writing an essay. Aspiring to Excellence means you will excel in what you do, try hard and work towards a great goal. The harder you try the better you get.



3. Write a thoughtful message for someone who has helped you strive for excellence within the last month. It can be a student or teacher.
One person who has helped me strive for excellence are my friends online, they help me when I am down and bored and when I am excited they are always there! My online friends are always there for me and help me when i am stuck on something. They are always encouraging me and others to be better.



4. What have you accomplished where you feel you achieved excellence? 
I feel that I have achieved excellence in programming, I believe that you can never stop learning while programming as I have learnt many things and consider myself pretty efficient, every day I learn more and more. To some subjects achieving excellence is possible if you really enjoy it and really do your best.



5. Identify some things that cause you to whine and complain? How can you make a change?  
Some things that cause me to whine and complain is when i get unexplainable errors while programming, this frustrates me and i become very annoyed. What i can do to make this better is taking a break and thinking the process out rationally. This is a very good tip and usually works.


6. When people around you whine and complain, how can you help refocus the conversation? What changes can you make to ensure your school and community are better places for others?
	Taking a quick break from the conversation and thinking it through can help the conversation. Waiting a minute or too can help you and others clear your minds and think of what to do next, this is really important in creative projects.


7. How hard are you willing to work for excellence and make a difference in your life? What is your passion? 
	I always strive to do my best and work hard for excellence, i spend hours on doing what i need to do. What i work hard on has amazing results and makes my life more fun. This leads to college opportunities and further experimentation and discovery!

﻿Believe in You Lesson 3 - Dude Be Nice

Please answer each question in paragraph form.


1. What was most interesting about this episode to you?
The most interesting thing about this episode is that there are great people working to make others' lives better. It is cool that people are working together to make others lives better. Volunteering for this cause seems like a great thing to do as it is a selfless act.



2. What do you do to ensure you are nice to everyone?
I ensure that I am being nice to everyone in many simple ways. one way is that I treat everyone equally, by treating everyone equally i can ensure that no-one is upset at me for treating them worse than others. Another way I ensure that i am nice to everyone is that I always treat other people with respect.


3. What can you change or do to ensure you are being nice to others and being inclusive?
I can start being more accepting of others as currently i am closed of and prefer to stick with people I know. I can start playing more frequently with people I know. Being inclusive builds character.



4. Define NICE.
I think the meaning of nice is treating everyone equally with respect and talking without sarcasm as it can often come across are rude. Being nice does not take a lot of effort, you could smile at someone across the street. Being nice does not only mean treating people with respect it also means having good manners.



5. What do you do for others that may be nice? 
I believe that you should treat others how you want to be treated, by doing this people can always be nice to each other. Some things I do to be nice include, picking up things around the house and talking with respect to others. Simple things can go a long way, small acts can add up.



6. What is a random act of kindness that you have done recently?
One random act of kindness I have done recently is taking out my neighbors trash. My neighbors forgot to take their trash out on Monday so I took it out for them. I do lots of small acts of kindness as I think it makes people like you more and makes friendship.



7. Describe your character.
I am a nice person in my eyes, I always treat people with respect when I first meet them, I talk with nice manners and always greet them when possible. My body gestures are always non-aggressive as that could portray being rude. I like to converse formally and am always gentle
﻿Please answer each question in paragraph form.  Remember a paragraph is 3-5 sentences.  Don't forget to turn in when done.


1. In what ways did Allison Schmitt demonstrate courage? 
Allison Schmitt demonstrated courage in many different ways. One way she demonstrated courage is that she undertook professional swimming at the age of 18. Her first medal was a bronze medal so she kept on persevering till she became the best she could.


2. In what ways are these demonstrations of courage similar or different? 
Allison first demonstrating courage was to enter the sport, it was the biggest demonstration of courage. It is different to her persevering for gold as she has already entered the sport and is working to better herself. It is similar as they both make her work extra hard.


3. Think of how you have demonstrated courage in the past. How do your examples compare to the courage Allison demonstrated?
Examples of courage i have displayed in the past is 1. Me moving countries. It is similar to allison entering the olympics as it is moving to a completely different place. It is different because one is a life change and the other can be undone.


4. What role does courage play in taking risks? 
Courage takes a very large place in taking risks. Taking risks requires a lot of courage as it "risks" things. It takes a lot of courage to risk something as it could benefit you or it could take a lot.


5. Is more courage required to take good risks or bad risks? Why? 
I think more courage is used to take bad risks. For example, betting a lot of money is a bad risk as it could lose you a lot of money and cost you your welfare. However a good risk like investing in the stock market could make a risk but its consequences wont be so vast.


6. What are some potential outcomes of good risks? 
Some potential outcomes of good risks are getting a lot of money, if you're investing, or losing that set amount of money if the stock goes down. Another outcome could doing a surprise part. 1 outcome could be a very fun party and another could be a a failed party. Good risks do not come with much downfall.


7. What are the possible consequences of bad risks? 
Some bad risks like gambeling could have some bad consequences. For example you could loose a lot of money and form an addiction. If you unlikely win you could make some money.


8. Which risks are most popular or most common with students today? 
I think the most common risks with students today are tests. Students have to revise very hard or they risk getting a bad grade. If they revise well and are feeling good on test day they will get a good grade.


9. Does peer pressure influence your "risk-taking behavior"? 
No, peer pressure does not influence my "risk-taking behavior". I dont take unnecessary risks even if i am pressured to as i know the consequences outway the reward. I can control my risk taking.

﻿"How to Warm Up" [Article]
Read the article, watch the videos, & answer the questions
The Warm Up.
 
It's the least "sexy" part of training. It lacks the competition and the intensity of the rest of the workout. Because of this, it is often overlooked by coaches and or avoided by athletes. The warm up, though, is one of the most important components of any training program.
 
Beyond simply preparing athletes for more intense work, a proper warm up simultaneously offers us a chance to work on movement technique, prevent injury in the gym and on the field, and become a better overall athlete (mobility/ROM/proprioception/etc). 
 
How should you approach the warm up in order to achieve all of these significant benefits?
 
Let's take a quick look at the structure of a well-executed warm up.
 
Important to note here, is the order in which everything is executed. Though we have laid out a specific sequence of events, a warm up does not always need to follow such to the letter. Often, these stages will overlap, and sometimes it makes more sense to perform a technique brief before mobility or perform your activation in place of dynamic movement. Bottom line: so long as you are using a structured warm up with purposeful intent, you're doing it right!
 
Step 1: Get Moving! (Elevate Heart Rate)
 
1A: LIGHT CARDIO
 
Before we do anything else, we must prime the engine. 
 
To do this, we elevate the heart rate, incite blood flow to the entire body, and begin moving our muscles and joints in a low intensity environment. The goal, here, is to elevate body temperature and increase tissue elasticity.
 
The simplest way to accomplish this is to hop into some light "cardio" work. You have a whole host of different options:
 
 Jogging
 Biking
Rowing
Jumping Rope
 Jumping Jacks
 
Beyond the traditional cardio options, you could easily opt for something more entertaining to a group of young athletes. A casual game of knockout, tag, musical chairs (the med ball version is quite entertaining!), etc. are great options so long as it is casual and relaxed. All we are looking for is continuous movement at a very moderate pace.
 
Perform for somewhere between 2 and 5 minutes depending on time constraints.
 
1B: DYNAMIC MOVEMENT
 
Once the heart rate is up and blood has begun to flow, we like to transition directly into another kind of continuous movement (you could also start the process here). 
 
Unlike our monostructural cardio, though, we are working through fuller ranges of motion about different joints. The goal is to expand our initial warm up into more athletic, movement-relevant motion. For example, the "spiderman & reach" movement you have below. Please watch the video and mark that done.
 
Other types of dynamic mobility/warm up movements are:
 
PVC Pass throughs
Bodyweight Good Mornings
Inchworm to a Push Up
Continuous Line Drills
 
In each of these examples, the goal is slow, purposeful movement. These are not static stretches, but neither are they fast-paced. We want to reinforce great biomechanics (focusing on the maintenance of the lumbar curve during a bodyweight good morning, for example), and begin to warm up the muscles and connective tissues through a complete range of motion that will be used during the workout ahead.
 
Step 2: Mobility
 
After the body has been warmed up a bit, we sometimes like to slow things down a little with some targeted mobility work. 
 
Passive mobility holds (aka static stretching), or tissue mashing, can help prime our body for optimal movement and positioning in our upcoming training. When done consistently, it can also improve our overall flexibility, stability, and range of motion over time.
 
For example, if we are getting below parallel in the day's workout, we may prescribe some banded hip and ankle mobility holds. The "banded squat mobility" video is below, please watch the demo and mark as "done".
 
Not only does this grease the groove for our squatting, it reinforces proper hip/knee/ankle alignment to prevent unintentional internal rotation of the hip (specifically the valgus knee collapse so often associated with ACL injuries) and also improves ankle dorsiflexion. Both are key to avoiding injury and improving performance when running, jumping, etc. 
 
Now, there is a LOT of debate on the place and the efficacy of static stretching and tissue mashing (foam rolling, etc) as it pertains to a training warm up. For years, many people trashed the concept as a detriment to subsequent muscular strength and power output, removing it from warm up protocols altogether.
 
Recently, though, much research has come out that seems to oppose this train of thought.
 
In fact, research has shown that static stretching, when done in durations of greater than 30, but less than 60 seconds has been proven to improve range of motion while not impacting peak power or strength.
 
Further, when it is combined with dynamic movement, static stretching at all has absolutely no negative impact on muscular strength or power. 
 
If there are no recognizable negatives, then, in our minds, passive mobility can set up the athlete for short term and long term success.
 
Step 3: Movement Prep
 
3A: ACTIVATION
 
Once we've gotten the blood flowing and our range of motion enhanced, we want to take some dynamic activity and make it specific to the training demands of the day. 
 
Our goal is to begin to "activate" the particular muscle groups and kinetic chains that are of primary focus later on. In conjunction with your mobility work, proper activation can lead to a significant improvement of overall movement quality.
 
What does this look like?
 
Frankly it can take on many forms, all depending on your approach and goal for the day. One day you may choose to shore up the midline in preparation for heavy deadlifts by working some hip extensions or simple supermen. Another day it may be concentrated shoulder pre-hab before barbell pressing work. It may be specific glute activation before squatting to help prevent valgus knee collapse in inexperienced lifters. It may even be simple gymnastics of push ups and air squats, or barbell complexes to dial in lightweight movement patterns that will be used later on.
 
For example, our series of DB Carries is a great way to activate the shoulders and lockdown the midline all at once. Please watch the video below, and mark it as "done".
 
The beauty is in the flexibility - you can get a lot of things done while also preparing for your more intense work to come.
 
3B: TECHNIQUE
 
Arguably the most important component of movement prep. No athlete is at a level of movement competency that would eliminate the need to drill technique and form every single day. We are great believers in mastering the basics...then mastering them again!
 
We first like to grab a PVC or empty barbell and drill the movement in question, and all of its constituent parts. If it's a heavy squat clean day, for example, we will likely run through our 3 position clean drill first. 
 
Then, we would drill the exact movement for a number of light, perfect reps with an empty bar. 
 
Then we gradually increase the loading and resistance until we've reached our desired level of intensity. 
 
This process really serves two purposes. First, it allows time for technique work. Too often, coaches and athletes opt not to continually work movement technique to their detriment. It also prepares us, neuromuscularly, for the intensity to come within that exact movement pattern.
 
CONCLUSION
 
All of the above is a surefire way to prime the body for your training session. You'll be less susceptible to injury, you'll gain total body control and ROM over time, you'll cement great movement patterns, and you'll see the best gains - you'll PR more.
 
So next time you train, pay attention to your warm up and make the most of it!

Answer the questions below.  Submit through Google Classroom
1. What is the point of light "aerobic" movement at the beginning of a warm up, and what are the results?
The point of light "aerobic" movement is to get the heart rate up and make the blood flow. The result of this is to increase body temperature and increase elasticity.
2. Provide 3 examples of dynamic warm-up movements.
1. PVC pass throughs
2. Bodyweight good mornings
3. Inchworm To Pushup
3. What role can static stretching play within a warm up protocol?
Static stretching can help prime our body for optimal movement and positioning in our upcoming training.
4. Some people argue that static stretching can negatively influence subsequent strength and power output. Is this true? How can we avoid any such negative effects?
Static stretching is debated to negatively affect the athlete but when paired with dynamic exercise between 30 and 60 seconds its effects positively affect your performance.
5. Give one example of neuromuscular "activation" and why it might be used in a warm up.
Neuromuscular activation is gradually increasing the intensity of the workout so your brain is ready for the next level of the workout
6. Who should think about and work on movement technique every single training session?
The athlete should always think about and work on movement technique every single training session so that they can improve every time they repeat the workout.
﻿"The Power of Fitness" [Article]
Read Article Below, then Answer Questions
"Leave all the afternoon for exercise and recreation, which are as necessary as reading. I will rather say more necessary because health is worth more than learning."
-Thomas Jefferson
 
THE DISAPPEARANCE OF FITNESS IN SCHOOL:
 
Even in the days of the Founding Fathers, we knew the vital importance of physical activity and fitness for a healthy and productive life.
 
In the early 1800's, "Physical Education" was a private pursuit focused squarely on gymnastics and personal hygiene. By the middle of the century, though, Public Schools in the United States were requiring daily exercise of all students, even including calisthenics into the formal curriculum. 
 
Over the next hundred years or so, though, PE in schooling shifted away from pure physical conditioning and towards more of a sport- and game-dominated subject.
 
Then, the press of global war forced the government to push PE back towards fitness education and physical standards (driven mostly by a need for a fit "fighting-age" population). The oft-debated "Presidential Fitness Test" was a direct result of this movement. It wasn't perfect, but physical fitness and exercise was a priority.
 
Economic downturns in the 70's and 80s, though, and the subsequent budget cuts, led to a drastic decline in the presence of comprehensive PE programs in our nation's educational institutions.
 
These days, instead of being presented with regular activity and exercise, our students are now more sedentary than ever.
 
In fact, the United States earned a D- in Overall Physical Activity within the recently released 2018 U.S. Report Card on Physical Activity for Children and Youth.
 
Research has shown a disturbing trend amongst our nation's students with regards to activity levels:
Only 6% of students get the recommended 60 minutes of physical activity each day.
Just 30% attend any sort of PE class every day. Worse, over 50% attend such a class just once a week! 
 
To make matters worse, PE has become the subject from which students claim exemption on a regular basis. From physical or cognitive disability, to participation in other school activities, like band or art class - these days there are many "acceptable" reasons for missing PE.
 
Across the country, students are being asked to sit more, and move less.
 
HOUSTON, WE HAVE A PROBLEM.
 
As a result of a declining commitment to PE in schools across the country, for middle and high school students, overall physical fitness rates have been in decline since the turn of the millennia. In fact:
Less than half of 12 to 15 year old youth have adequate cardiorespiratory fitness levels
Only 52% of children between 6 and 15 years old have adequate muscular endurance, based on the number of pull-ups performed
Of High School-aged students, just 5.3% of boys and 12.1% are in the "excellent" Health Benefit Zone for grip strength.
 
To make matters worse, this drop in physical fitness can lead to all sorts of harmful situations down the road as kids age. As kids graduate and move on with their lives, they are at greater risk for all of the following:
High Blood Pressure & Cholesterol
Cardiovascular Disease
Impaired glucose tolerance, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes.
Asthma & Sleep Apnea
Low Bone Density & Joint Problems
 
What's more, happiness, stress-level, and academic achievement are also all at risk when physical activity and fitness are not made a priority within educations.
 
In fact, hundreds of studies have come out in just the last few years, all illuminating a direct positive connection between formal physical education programs and improved academic achievement and happiness. 
 
Fitness Education, it seems, may just be the secret sauce for effective education!
 
LEARN BETTER
 
According to researchers, regular, structured physical activity directly affects the brain's physiology in such a way that improves education and learning.
 
Exercise, and the associated increase in blood flow and oxygenation in the brain leads to the development of cerebral capillaries, the production of neurotrophins, the growth of nerve cells, and the overall improvement of the brain's neural network. 
 
Your brain, itself, will grow in size.
 
As a direct result of this cerebral activity, this "brain exercise," their lies a proven positive association to academic achievement.
 
In Naperville, Illinois, math and reading scores shot through the roof when PE was mandated and placed at the beginning of every school day.
 
Frankly put, regular exercise creates better learners.
 
Regular physical activity, and its effect on students' brains and biochemistry leads to improved execution functioning and cognition. Students concentrate better, have better memory, and can process, store, and retrieve information more effectively. 
 
Perhaps most importantly, though, there has been shown to be absolutely NO downside to spending more time in PE and less in other subjects:
 
"The studies also suggest that increased time spent in physical education is not likely to detract from academic performance even when less time is devoted to subjects other than physical education."
 
When push comes to shove, spending more time in structured PE is proven to be an effective way of creating better learners and higher achieving students.
 
FEEL BETTER
 
While standardized test scores and academic achievement are important, the positive emotional effects of fitness education may be even more important.
 
As reported by the APA in 2018, depression and anxiety are affecting our teens worse than any other age group. Intense schedules, social pressures, and rising academic/athletic/personal expectations have taken their toll on our youth. 
 
Today's generation of students and young adults are more stressed than ever before.
 
Luckily, an investment in activity and physical education can pay dividends here, as well as exercise has been shown to:
elevate mood
positively influence depression and anxiety
reduce psychosocial stress
enhance various aspects of self-esteem.
 
Additionally, school & classroom behavior appears to be radically improved as well.
 
Studies have continuously found associations between PE and impulse control, attention, attitude, and task-based behavior amongst students throughout their school day.
 
Schools that enhanced the presence of Physical Education and school-sanctioned physical activity have experienced less educational "disruption" in general. In fact, there exists a strong correlation between high physical fitness achievement and a concurrent improvement in attendance and decrease in disciplinary incidents. 
 
In a generation full of behavior disorder diagnoses, and medicated kids, this goes even farther. Parents and teachers of children with ADHD reported markedly improved behavior following structured physical activity. 
 
Long story short, kids who are engaged in regular physical fitness programs have more positive moods, better classroom behavior, and feel less stress.
 
GET UP & MOVE!
 
If we want our kids to be successful students, healthy kids, and happy people, then we must look at the role and presence of fitness and activity in their daily lives.
 
When push comes to shove, we owe it to our kids (and ourselves) to place a greater emphasis on PE within their overall education. The research is clear, it will help them live healthier lives, perform better in school, and experience greater emotional happiness.
 
Teaching and learning lifetime fitness is a noble pursuit.
1) Power of Fitness Assignment Questions


After you have read the article above, answering the following questions. Submit your answers or however your teacher has requested you complete the assignment (email, google docs, etc).

1. Describe the "history" of PE within schools over the last 200 years.
Pe has got funding reduced and less people getting the recommended 60 mins a day


2. What grade did the US receive on its "Report Card" for Physical Activity in 2015, and why?
The US received a D- in its report card due to PE being game dominated.



3. Identify some of the concerning statistics depicting the current status of physical fitness of high school students across the country.

1. Less than half of 12 to 15 year old youth have adequate cardiorespiratory fitness levels
2. Only 52% of children between 6 and 15 years old have adequate muscular endurance, based on the number of pull-ups performed
3. Of High School-aged students, just 5.3% of boys and 12.1% are in the "excellent" Health Benefit Zone for grip strength.
 

4. What are some long-term health risks associated with poor physical fitness?
1. High Blood Pressure & Cholesterol
2. Cardiovascular Disease
3. Impaired glucose tolerance, insulin resistance, and type 2 diabetes.
4. Asthma & Sleep Apnea
5. Low Bone Density & Joint Problems


5. What are the effects of exercise on the brain?
Physical activities affect on the brain include
1. elevate mood
2. positively influence depression and anxiety
3. reduce psychosocial stress
4. enhance various aspects of self-esteem.


6. How can fitness in PE affect academic performance?
	PE improves  impulse control, attention, attitude, between students and pe also improves adhd and reduces stress


7. What are some of the social/emotional benefits of regular exercise?
Exercise reduces stress and improves behavior therefore creating a better environment.


8. What are the positive consequences of fitness in PE in terms of classroom behavior
Pe increases attendance and reduces disruptions in class.


9. What do YOU think the role of physical fitness and exercise should be within schools?

I think that physical fitness should be heavily integrated into schools as pe help people live longer and healthier which allows all other things to be done!
Pulling Comparison

1. Hand placement, my hand was gripping the weight firmly and strongly, it was in the center and was balanced.
2. Elbows track back, my elbows tracked back fully and were moving in a swift motion
3. Stable mid-line, tight core, my midline was a bit wobbly but overall it was solid most of the time, my core was tight.
4. Full ROM; fully extend arms, my arms were extended fully when the weight was down and my arm was fully contracted when my arm was up

Overall my pull was very similar to the pulls shown in the video, other than me exchanging the weight from arm to arm.
Push Up Comparison

My pushups were elevated and performed on a chair, What I did correctly; The placement of my hands was done correctly, They were placed outside my shoulders, faced flat. My elbow path was also done correctly. What I could have improved upon is my stable mid-line, as my gluteus maximus was bent and not in a straight line. I had a full rango of motion which was a thing i did correctly

Tuck Jump Comparison

1. Feet/stance, my feet and stance was very good, my feet were stacked right underneath my hips
2. Knees/Ankles/Toes, my knees had a soft bend and tracked over my toes throught the jump, on some jumps my toes were behind my knees so that is something to work on.
3. Counter movement, i initiated my jump with a squat in every one.
4. Triple Extension, I need to work on my triple extension as i did not extend fully on some jumps but i used my arms well to propel me.
5. Landing, My landing was good and followed the point of performance, i used my legs as shock absorbers, i ended in a similar position to where i started.
